- [Instructor] So far,
we have written a student service app
with integration tests covering all layers,
but how can we ensure
it can be consumed by other applications?
Let's dive in and write a consumer for a service
and see how we can write
a meaningful integration test
even when the student service is not available.
Head over to start.spring.io.
As the Group name,
choose com.linkedIn
and as the Artifact use student-client.
We can leave other configurations as default,
choose Java 15.
In the dependencies select Project lombok,
Spring Reactive Web and stub runner
click on generate
go to downloads directory
and open it between your ID.
This is our client application.
We'll start
by first writing a test
that can create a client
which can talk to our service.
Using the TDD approach,
we first need to write a failing test.
Let's create a new class student client test
and annotate it with Spring Boot test
we will need a student client
that will talk to our service.
Since it doesn't exist
we will create one
and annotate it with add component
so it is registered by Spring.
We need a new test method
get student for given student is returned.
Under given part,
we will create random ID.
Under when part,
we will call our client
with client dot get student
and provide student ID.
As the response,
we expect to get back a student object.
The student type and method don't exist yet
so we will create them.
For now, we can return null.
For student class,
we will add the same fields like
ID,
a student name
and grade
plus lombok connotations.
Let's assert certain things about the response.
We expect the student ID will not be null.
Student name equal to Mark
and grade equal to 10.
If we run our tests,
we know it will fail
because in a client we are returning null.
We will use WebClient
since the rest template will be deprecated
in the future versions of Spring.
We'll also include
required args constructor
from project lombok
to handle construction injection.
Now we can write WebClient
dot get
dot URI
slash student slash ID
as a parameter
and just to finish our call,
we expect a type of student class.
Note that WebClient by default
wraps our object to Mono and Flux wrappers.
Since our student service API is non reactive
then Flux and Mono
are not much use for us
so we can unwrap them by calling block
which blocks the stream
and gets data out of it.
In order for this to work,
we need to configure our bean for our WebClient.
We can do that
in a student client application class
we need to inject a WebClient builder
to configure it
and set the domain and port of the service.
We could configure
domain and port in application property
but for now it's fine if we leave it hard-coded.
Now let's try again running our test.
Notice what happens.
We get connection refused
and it is obvious
why our student service application is not running.
We could run it by firing up another intelligent
but what if we have 10 different services?
Would you fire up those as well?
Or what if you are depending on a service
that is in a cloud environment
but it is either unavailable
or unreachable from our test?
So what should we do?
The obvious thing to do is run a mock
but not just any mock.
We need a mock on HTTP level.
This is where WireMock can support us.
We just need to configure
auto configure WireMock
which by default uses port 8080,
we can overwrite it if we want to.
Stub for get students
slash plus ID
will return Okay Jason,
I love this fluent API from WireMock.
As in a few lines of code,
we can easily create a stub.
Also with Java 15,
we get a text block support
plus with intelligent and James Jason reference
and we can easily write Jason response.
Now that we have everything ready,
let's fire up our test again
and there you have it.
We have just proved our client application working.
We have a green client.
We have a green service.
Everything seems working, right?
Well, not exactly.
Did you notice the bug on the client side
resume the collaborating object
has student name?
While the service provides just the name,
this can happen quite often.
One team can change collaborating objects
without being aware
it is affecting other client's applications.
Later we're going to follow up on this example
and learn how to mitigate such issues
in a microservice environment.